Playbooks
=========

Summary of playbooks defined in this package.

Cassandra service account supports SSH logins with using Kerberos authentication.
For playbooks that do not specify different user name `kinit` has to be executed to obtain Kerberos ticket.

accounts.yml
------------

This playbook creates new accounts in Cassandra cluster - a regular user and a superuser.
It has to be executed once after a new cluster is initialized with `bootstrap.yml` playbook.
The names and passwords for the two account are defined in the Vault.
See `roles/cassandra_accounts/README.md` for the requirements and a list of variables.

Example of running this playbook:

    # Enable Vault CLI and authenticate in Vault.
    $ module load vault
    $ vault login ...

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/accounts.yml


bootstrap.yml
-------------

This playbook initializes a new Cassandra cluster starting Docker service on each cluster node sequentially.

The very first startup of Cassandra cluster has to be performed by bringing up nodes one-by-one, starting with seed nodes.
This playbook needs to be executed once to initialize a new cluster, or when extending the cluster after adding new nodes to an inventory.
The `site.yml` playbook needs to be run beforehand to install all deployment files on each node.

Example of running this playbook:

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/bootstrap.yml

down.yml
--------

This playbook performs a graceful shutdown of a Cassandra cluster.
On each node it flushes in-memory data, stops compaction, stops the service, and stops and removes containers.

Example of running this playbook:

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/down.yml

medusa-restore.yml
------------------

This playbook restores Cassandra cluster from a backup made earlier by medusa service.

See `roles/medusa_restore/README.md` for detailed description of the process and options.

Example of restoring a cluster from scratch:

    # Create data directories on all nodes.
    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml -u $USER -K cassandra_cluster/site-init.yml
    # Install deployment tools.
    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/site.yml
    # Restore backup with a given name.
    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml -e backup_name=backup-20260601 cassandra_cluster/medusa-restore.yml
    # Wait until restore finishes, all containers have to stop on all nodes.
    $ ansible all -i inventory/apdb_test.yaml -a "docker ps"
    # Start the cluster.
    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/up.yml

nodetool.yml
------------

This playbook executes `nodetool` commands on each cluster node, passing `cmd` variable as an argument.

Note that `ansible-pssh` script can produce better output.

Example of running this playbook:

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml -e cmd=status cassandra_cluster/nodetool.yml

prep-cluster-restore.yml
------------------------

This playbook prepares environment on remote nodes for restoring backup data into a cluster with different topology.

See `roles/prep_restore/README.md` for detailed description of the process and options.
Note that restoring to a different topology cluster is not likely to work at all.

rolling-restart.yml
-------------------

This playbook performs a rolling restart of Cassandra and Medusa services.

Example of running this playbook:

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/rolling-restart.yml

site-init.yml
-------------

This playbook executes the very first step in initializing a Cassandra cluster.
It creates data directories with proper permissions and updates some system parameters.
If `telegraf` is installed on cluster nodes, it updates telegraf configuration to enable metrics collection from Cassandra.

This playbook needs to run `sudo`, so sudo password has to be provided (`-K` option).
The service account is not allowed to run sudo, so the user name of the current user needs to be passed (current user needs `sudo` privileges).

Example of running this playbook:

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml -u $USER -K cassandra_cluster/site-init.yml

site.yml
--------

This playbook copies all files that are needed to run the services and pulls necessary docker images.

Configuration files for Cassandra and Medusa are generated by the roles used in this playbook.
Many of the Cassandra configuration options are updated from the `roles/cassandra_configs/templates/cassandra-local.yaml.j2`.

Example of running this playbook:

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/site.yml

up.yml
------

This playbook brings up a Cassandra cluster, starting Cassandra and Medusa containers.

Example of running this playbook:

    $ ansible-playbook -i inventory/cluster.yaml cassandra_cluster/up.yml
