cassandra_files
===============

This role copies files that are needed for Cassandra deployment to remote hosts.

Requirements
------------

This role uses files generated by `cassandra_configs`, `medusa_configs`, and `jolokia_download` roles.
The folder where files are copied must be created first by `remote_folders` role.

Role Variables
--------------

Role default variables:

- `cassandra_files_cassandra_yaml` - name of the Cassandra YAML config file, default: `cassandra-{{ cassandra_version }}.yaml`; file is generated by `cassandra_config` role.
- `cassandra_files_jolokia_jar` - name of Jolokia JAR file: default: `jolokia-jvm-{{ jolokia_version }}.jar`.
- `cassandra_files_jvm_server_options` - name of the Cassandra server options file, default: `jvm-server-{{ cassandra_version }}.options`.
- `cassandra_files_jvm11_server_options` - name of the Cassandra server options file, default: `jvm11-server-{{ cassandra_version }}.options`.

âš ď¸Ź NOTE:
Default vars use hardcoded names for configuration files, and one of the files include JVM version number (e.g. `jvm11-server.options`).
When `cassandra_version` changes it may be necessary to update file name in `defaults/main.yml`.

Dependencies
------------

Roles used by this role:

- `community.docker.docker_compose_v2_pull`
- `community.docker.docker_plugin`

The role uses variables defined elsewhere:

- `service_name` - name of the docker Cassandra service.
- `cassandra_image_name` - Cassandra docker image name.
- `cassandra_version` - Cassandra version number (e.g. `4.10.0`).
- `deploy_docker_folder` - location of the deployment folder on remote hosts.
- `need_jolokia` - boolean specifying whether Jolokia needs to be installed ().
- `jolokia_version` - Jolokia version number (if `need_jolokia` is true).
- `local_cache` - filesystem directory path on local host used to cache downloaded and generated files.
- `group_local_cache` - filesystem directory path on local host  used to cache group-specific generated files.
- `loki_plugin_name` - name of the docker plugin for logging to Loki.
- `data_dir` - directory on remote hosts for Cassandra data.
- `logs_dir` - directory on remote hosts for Cassandra logs.
- `cluster_seed_hosts_names` - comma-separated list of the seed node names.
- `cluster_name` - name of the Cassandra cluster, typically inventory or group variable.
- `node_datacenter` - datacenter name, typically group variable.
- `node_rack` - datacenter name, typically group variable.
- `use_backups` - boolean specifying whether to run Medusa backup service.
- `backup_service_name` - name of docker Medusa service.
- `medusa_image_name` - Medusa docker image name.
- `medusa_version` - Medusa version number.

Example Playbook
----------------

A typical example of role use:

- name: "Copy files to remote nodes"
  hosts: all
  gather_facts: false
  roles:
    - cassandra_files

License
-------

GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.

See LICENCING to see the full text.

Author Information
------------------

Managed by LSST DM team: https://github.com/lsst-dm/dax_apdb_deploy
